---
layout: post
title: Stewards of the city
---

Notes from Sara Heitlinger: What Else Could a Sustainable Smart City Be?

Who has access to proprietary spaces?
Going beyond human-centred design
Neo liberal smart city. Smart cities have intensified the reach of neo-liberilsation of devices and data
HCI designers are trying re-appropriate the management of these resources…  to empower users to be stewards of their data and community initiatives, rather than passively consume
- Di salvo
- dualist thought: current systems are human centred, independent of the web of life
- ‘Ecocide’
- Urban agricultural communities. What does sustainability mean?
- Spitalfields city farm: Ethnic diversity, poverty, racial segregation and food related ill health and marginalisation
- Democratic and inclusive design
- ‘Internet of seeds’ requirement to register seeds. Who controls seed supply?
- Initial workshops to gather data about growers. Participatory mapping, probe maps
- Practical, personal and cultural data collation and theming
- Seeds grown and donated to seed library
    - Grown locally and adapted to local environments
    - Seed swaps, seed saving workshops to maintain motivation and share knowledge
    - Use of environmental sensing kits temperature, humidity, light, pressure
    - Interactive web page of data from each garden
    - Connected Seeds Library at spitalfields farm
    - ‘The rights to the smart city are enmeshed in the marginalised other’
- >Harroway - staying with the trouble/ the twin illusions of techno progress
- ‘City of care’ Manual labour and ‘slow-care’ being a benefit. Harnesses the expertise of the migrant communities
- Seed sovereignty… taking back control over multinational companies
- Technical skills and data literacy required
- www.connectedseed.org/connected-seeds-film 

<strong>There’s a need for HCI to identify where the struggle is already taking place and design solutions to overcome it.</strong>
